https://newsroom.ibm.com/2026-06-25-ibm-debuts-worlds-first-sub-1-nanometer-chip-technology
IBM Debuts World’s First Sub-1 Nanometer Chip Technology 
Built with revolutionary “nanostack” 3D chip architecture, IBM’s sub-1 nm chip to propel semiconductor industry forward for the next decade
YORKTOWN HEIGHTS, NY, June 25, 2026 – IBM (NYSE: IBM) today unveiled a major semiconductor breakthrough with the introduction of the world’s first sub-1 nanometer (nm) chip technology, featuring a revolutionary transistor architecture at the 0.7 nm, or 7 angstrom node. The achievement marks a landmark moment for an industry facing the physical limits of traditional chip scaling. Semiconductors play critical roles in everything from computing, to appliances, to communication devices, transportation systems, and critical infrastructure.
IBM’s new sub-1 nm chip packs nearly 100 billion transistors onto a chip the size of a fingernail, nearly twice the density of IBM’s 2 nm chip, unveiled in 2021. Enabled by a series of structural and material innovations, including IBM’s groundbreaking three-dimensional nanostack architecture, the technology demonstrates how continued gains in performance and efficiency remain possible even as chip features approach atomic dimensions. 

Published technical results report the new chip is projected to offer a substantial leap in capability—up to 50 percent more performance, or 70 percent greater energy efficiency than IBM’s 2 nm node chips[1]—supercharging compute for applications ranging from generative AI and cloud infrastructure to next-generation electronic devices.
"IBM’s latest chip breakthrough marks a landmark moment in computing, pushing technology beyond the nanometer era to the scale of atoms. With our new nanostack architecture, we’re not just making smaller transistors, we’re reinventing how chips are built to deliver dramatically more power and energy efficiency,” said Jay Gambetta, Director of IBM Research and IBM Fellow. “This industry-first innovation continues IBM’s legacy of leading in next-generation technologies and sets the foundation for the next era of computing."
Nanostack, an Industry Breakthrough in Chip Design

To produce this chip, IBM researchers developed an entirely new transistor architecture, called “nanostack,” the industry’s first known three-dimensional, nanosheet-based design. Nanostack represents a major advance beyond nanosheet technology, the industry’s current leading-edge architecture, invented by IBM. The nanostack design vertically stacks and staggers transistors, taking advantage of 3D sequential integration to pack more transistors onto a chip. The design also unlocks the use of different material combinations within each stacked layer, optimizing performance and power efficiency of each transistor independent of the other.

IBM’s nanostack architecture was experimentally validated through ultra-thin dielectric bonding in CMOS integration, demonstration of dual-channel engineering capability, and functional CMOS inverter operation with expected switching performance. Together, these results confirm the nanostack technology can be physically built and supports real computation.

Additionally, in new research presented at VLSI 2026, IBM researchers demonstrated that the nanostack architecture provides 40 percent scaling in SRAM,[2] unlocking the ability of chip designers to create much more efficient chips while also supporting the high-bandwidth data demands of advanced AI workloads.

With this groundbreaking structure, logic technology can extend for the first time below the 1 nm node, advancing the era of angstrom-level scaling, where dimensions approach the size of individual atoms. While transistor nodes now refer to a generation of manufacturing technology versus an exact physical dimension, IBM’s 0.7 nm technology—also referred to as 7 angstroms—demonstrates how continued scaling remains possible. With the new nanostack architecture, IBM’s semiconductor roadmap projects at least a decade of future scaling.

Building on Decades of Leadership in Semiconductor Innovation

This breakthrough is the latest testament to IBM as a leader in semiconductor R&D. IBM has led the world in developing the chips that power computing systems for decades, from early semiconductors in the 1960s to the world’s first 2 nm node chip. IBM continues to innovate at the cutting edge of silicon, AI hardware, logic, and quantum processors developed to power the future of computing.

IBM and its partners conduct this work at a leading semiconductor research facility in Albany, New York, which will soon be home to a High Numerical Aperture Extreme Ultraviolet (High NA EUV) lithography tool, essential for the future of logic scaling. Developed by ASML, this technology enables ultra‑precise circuit printing, supporting the creation of smaller, more powerful chips. IBM and partners including Lam Research Corp. (Nasdaq: LRCX), Tokyo Electron (TEL), and SCREEN Semiconductor Solutions, Ltd. have been working together to develop new High NA EUV processes and tools that have already yielded working devices.
IBM also recently announced a plan to form Anderon, the world’s first pure-play quantum foundry. Anderon, a standalone IBM company, will draw on IBM’s industry-leading quantum computing and semiconductor expertise to help position the United States to manufacture most of the world’s quantum wafers.

With the expectation of the earliest adoption of nanostack technology at the sub-1 nm node, IBM sees a path to production in as early as the next 5 years.

About IBM

IBM is a leading provider of global hybrid cloud and AI, and consulting expertise. We help clients in more than 175 countries capitalize on insights from their data, streamline business processes, reduce costs and gain the competitive edge in their industries. More than 4,000 government and corporate entities in critical infrastructure areas such as financial services, telecommunications and healthcare rely on IBM's hybrid cloud platform and Red Hat OpenShift to affect their digital transformations quickly, efficiently and securely. IBM's breakthrough innovations in AI, quantum computing, industry-specific cloud solutions and consulting deliver open and flexible options to our clients. All of this is backed by IBM's long-standing commitment to trust, transparency, responsibility, inclusivity and service. Visit www.ibm.com for more information.

https://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2026/06/ibm-claims-worlds-first-sub-1-nanometer-chip-technology/
IBM claims world’s first sub-1 nanometer chip technology
IBM’s nanostack transistors could boost chip performance or energy efficiency. 


A new chip architecture from IBM can integrate nearly 100 billion transistors on a chip the size of a human fingernail—nearly twice the transistor density of the company’s previous generation of chip technology. The resulting improvement in chip compute performance and energy efficiency comes from what IBM describes as the “world’s first sub-1 nanometer chip technology” for AI data centers.

“It’s not just an incremental step, it’s a meaningful leap forward,” said Jay Gambetta, director of IBM Research and IBM Fellow, in an advance media briefing. He described the new chip technology as “pointing to a future where computing becomes significantly more powerful without a corresponding increase in energy.”

It’s worth unpacking what the “world’s first sub-1 nanometer chip technology” means, because it is impractical to build reliably functional chips with transistors and other features smaller than 1 nanometer due to various physical limitations. Instead, IBM is basically claiming that its new “nanostack” architecture can deliver the computing performance improvements that would be expected if a theoretical chip could be built with physical features smaller than 1 nanometer.

Specifically, IBM describes its new chip technology as being built at the 0.7-nanometer node, which it has named the 7 angstrom node because 1 nanometer consists of 10 angstroms.

But keep in mind that such node numbers have nothing to do with the actual physical dimensions of IBM’s chip features. Older generations of chips developed in the 1970s and 1980s had physical features with dimensions matching the number in the name of their chip technology’s node or process—such as chips made at the 180-nanometer node—but that has not been the case for decades and certainly not for the latest chip generations made with a 3-nanometer or 2-nanometer process.

To overcome the physical scaling limits facing modern chip designers, IBM’s new nanostack architecture vertically stacks transistors in a staggered layout to pack more transistors into the same chip space. The nanostack architecture builds on the company’s prior development of nanosheet transistors that paved the way for its 2-nanometer chip node introduced in 2021.

The basic unit of IBM’s nanostack architecture consists of two transistors stacked and bonded together. Each transistor consists of three nanosheets that are individually 5 nanometers thick, equivalent to about 15 rows of silicon atoms. There is also a distance of about 9 nanometers separating each nanosheet.
Performance gains for the AI era

The nanostack architecture could pave the way for 50 percent higher computing performance or 70 percent greater energy efficiency than IBM’s previous generation of 2-nanometer node chips, according to projections from the company’s published technical reports. The company introduced its nanostack transistor architecture at the 2025 IEEE Symposium on VLSI Technology and Circuits held in Kyoto, Japan.

IBM researchers also showed how the nanostack architecture can provide 40 percent improvement in scaling for static random-access memory (SRAM) during the VLSI 2026 symposium. SRAM allows for fast but energy-intensive read and write operations that are crucial in many AI applications.

The memory improvement is made possible through a staggered-channel design for the chip’s SRAM bit cells—memory storage units consisting of six transistors—that reduces overall cell height by 40 percent and enables more SRAM to be squeezed into the same chip space.

That will probably be welcome news for chip designers looking to support AI workloads, given how SRAM scaling has fallen off drastically in recent generations of chip technologies. For example, SRAM scaling improved just a few percent between the 3-nanometer chip generation and the 2-nanometer chip generation, Gambetta explained.

“This achievement of 40 percent will eventually industrialize itself in AI workflows, which require higher bandwidth and high efficiency,” Gambetta said.
The roadmap for sub-1 nanometer nodes

As a company that performs chip technology research, IBM does not manufacture commercial chips that could end up in AI data centers or consumer devices. Instead, IBM has partnered with semiconductor companies such as Rapidus in Japan to mass manufacture its previous generation of 2-nanometer node chips based on the nanosheet architecture, or to commercialize related technology in another partnership with Samsung in South Korea.

Other companies have followed up on IBM’s pioneering work without any direct collaboration. For example, Taiwan’s TSMC independently developed nanosheet transistors for its own proprietary 2-nanometer node technology.

“Nanosheet has become the foundation of the next generation of transistor scaling,” said Huiming Bu, vice president of IBM Semiconductors Global R&D and IBM Research, during the media briefing. “Today, nanosheet is adopted by all leading foundries for most of the 3-nanometer chips and all of the 2-nanometer chips.”

IBM declined to name specific companies that it may partner with to commercialize the newest sub-1-nanometer node technology. But Bu expects that commercial chips made at the sub-1-nanometer node and incorporating the newest nanostack architecture could begin production as early as in the next five years and most likely within a decade.

“It will replace nanosheet as today’s mainstream in leading foundries, whether it’s CPUs or GPUs,” Bu said. “Within a decade, this will become another mainstream that we have invented and helped industry to transform.”

https://www.technologyreview.com/2026/06/25/1139696/ibm-unveils-sub1nm-chip/
IBM has unveiled chip technology that could help extend Moore’s Law another decade
The company, along with others, is pursuing a new paradigm for cramming more transistors on chips—building up.


IBM has built a new prototype chip with around 100 billion transistors on an area the size of a fingernail, which is twice the density of the company’s previous state-of-the-art technology announced in 2021. The design could pave the way for faster and more energy efficient computers for years to come.

For more than half a century, chipmakers have been able to make ever more powerful computers by following the key principle of Moore’s Law: Cram more transistors onto the chip. To do this, they shrank transistors—the tiny switches that perform computations—to incrementally smaller sizes. But in the last 15 years, transistors have gotten close to the point where quantum mechanics starts to interfere with their function: just a few dozen nanometers in size. They can’t get smaller.

So to fit more transistors on a chip, engineers across the industry are eyeing a pivot to an approach familiar to urban planners: build up. On Thursday, IBM announced it has created a chip that uses this strategy. The new architecture, known as a nanostack, vertically stacks transistors in two layers on a silicon chip.
“It’s not just an incremental step,” Jay Gambetta, the director of IBM Research, said during a press conference on Tuesday. “It’s a meaningful leap forward.” Within a decade, Gambetta expects, chips with nanostacking will be widely used in data centers, where their improved efficiency could help the facilities better manage their energy consumption.
“Absolutely, it’s transformational,” says Dan Hutcheson, vice chair of TechInsights, a technology analysis company. “This puts another 10, 15 years on the roadmap.” 

Compared with IBM’s previous state-of-the-art architecture, the company reports, chips built with this new approach can do as much as 50% more work in the same amount of time and be up to 70% more energy efficient. 

The architecture offers a general way of laying out transistors, and IBM will partner with semiconductor manufacturers to make the actual chips. It anticipates that chip designers will deploy the design in many different types of chips, including GPUs and CPUs. “I expect to have many conversations with designers about how they can use this technology,” Huiming Bu, IBM’s vice president of global semiconductor R&D, said in the press conference announcing the new design. 
A layer cake

Engineers created IBM’s new chip layer by layer, like a cake. They start by fabricating transistors on one layer of silicon. Then they place a silicon layer on top of these devices, and they fabricate another layer of transistors directly on top of that. Finally, they create the electrical connections between the two layers of transistors. This kind of vertical stack, which combines two types of transistors, is known as a complementary field-effect transistor, or CFET, explains Qing Cao, a professor of materials science and engineering at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, who was not involved with the work. 

The company isn’t the only one pursuing this general approach. The biggest chip manufacturers—Intel, Samsung, and TSMC—and the competing research lab Imec in Belgium have been investigating CFETs. IBM says its design is distinguished by the fact that the transistors in the second layer do not sit directly on top of the first layer’s transistors; rather, they are staggered, which the company says simplifies wiring, among other advantages. 

CFETs like those in IBM’s nanostack architecture contrast with another common approach to making two-tiered chips, such as AMD’s 3D V-Cache and Huawei’s forthcoming LogicFolding technology, Cao says. In those approaches, engineers fabricate the transistors on each layer of the chip independently before bonding the two together. IBM’s new method allows for more precise alignment of the layers, which is important for performance because transistors are so tiny, says Cao. 

Nanostacking builds on an approach called nanosheet technology, which has been used to make current state-of-the-art transistors since around 2022. A transistor is essentially a hose through which electrons flow, with a valve that can turn the flow on or off. Inside the transistor, electrons move through a patch of the silicon called a channel. In IBM’s nanostack approach, the channel consists of three nanosheets that are each 15 atoms thick, spaced nine nanometers apart. 

Every chip generation gets a name. IBM refers to its nanostack technology as “sub-nanometer” or “0.7 nanometer,” following a longtime industry convention where each generation is named for a smaller and smaller length. But “0.7 nanometer” is a marketing term and does not correspond to any physical characteristics of the chip. The distance between transistors “has been staying at about 40 nanometers for quite a long period of time,” says Cao. 
Putting it into production

Looking ahead, chipmakers can try increasing transistor density by building on more tiers, as Bu suggested in the press conference. However, they will face practical challenges, according to Cao. Manufacturing introduces errors, which means a certain number of chips are faulty upon creation. “Here you’re building another layer on top, so if either top layer or bottom layer fail, your entire chip is going to fail,” says Cao. The resulting failure rate will be higher than for single-layer chips, and that will be costly.

Another central challenge is what Cao calls “the thermal budget.” Essentially, it means that engineers need to figure out how to build each layer without melting the connections to the one underneath. This means keeping manufacturing processes below 400 °C. IBM figured out how to make the second stack at low enough temperature, although the company is mum about its methods. 

Academics are also on the case. Cao’s group, for example, has created a method for stacking transistors layer by layer where the second layer is created with processes below 200 °C. They manage this by using a type of transistor known as the junctionless transistor, which can be created without a typically required step called doping—a process that injects non-silicon atoms into silicon to tune the material’s properties. Doping is usually the hottest part of fabricating transistors. Cao thinks from a thermal management perspective, his approach could be easier to scale up to multiple tiers, although his demonstration is just a proof of principle.

But Cao thinks IBM’s work is “transformative” because it demonstrates how to stack transistors “on a full wafer using a state‑of‑the‑art manufacturing line.” The new approach pushes the industry forward, he says: “I’m interested in what’s their killer application.”