Hey, what's going on, everybody? It's ETA Prime back here again. In this video, we're going to be taking a first look at the all-new Steam Machine. I've had this in my possession for over a week, and so far, I'm really impressed with the build quality, performance, overall look and feel of the operating system. Obviously, we've seen this for quite a while on the Steam Deck, but this is really exciting, and I know a lot of people have been wanting to see what this thing can do, and it's finally here. Valve was kind enough to send over a review unit, and with this one here, we get a Steam Controller, couple extra face plates, and by the end of the video, we will talk about pricing here. There's a couple different SKUs that you can pick up over on the website, and I will leave links in the description. I've got many videos planned, so definitely keep an eye on the channel. If there's anything extra you want to see, let me know in the comments below. So, with that out of the way, let's go ahead and get this thing unboxed. And when it comes to the unboxing experience, it's pretty awesome. It's got a nice little pull tab right on the front of the packaging, and then you can fold the whole unit open, and it reveals the Steam Machine right here. To tell you the truth, this is a lot smaller than I thought it was. I've not been able to go hands-on yet with it until now, and it is absolutely tiny. Very nice design. I mean, we've seen pictures of it. We've got that huge fan in the rear to draw air in across the built-in cooler. No extra power supply is required. It's built into the chassis, so you don't have to worry about, you know, a brick hanging off the back of the desk or behind your entertainment center. And to kind of give you an idea about the size here, I wanted to compare this to the Xbox Series X. They're around the same shape, but as you can see, that Steam Machine is coming in so much smaller. And inside of the box, along with the Steam Machine, we do get a couple extra accessories, like a pretty beefy HDMI cable. And I'm guessing the other one is going to be our power cable. Other than that, we get a user manual up top. Again, Valve will be offering a few different to buy the Steam Machine, but the one they sent over did come with a Steam Controller and two extra face plates. Not exactly sure what these face plates look like, but I want to get all of this unboxed and we're going to start out here with the Steam Controller. We've seen this. I've got one, did a video on it. Absolutely love this and it really has become my go-to PC gaming controller. Comes with the wireless puck / charger down here. We've also got our USB cable up top. Yeah, this is going to work out great for the Steam Machine for sure. The Steam Machine does have a removable face plate and it looks like it connects with some magnets here. They're actually pretty strong. So, you can pull this off, you can customize the one you have, you could 3D print one, or you could pick up new face plates. But, they are going to be offering a bundle that comes with two face plates. And the first one we have here, let's go ahead. Oh, I knew this is going to happen. So, if you don't know, I've got a little bit of color blindness when it comes to a certain shade of orange or red. Now, I know for a fact that this should be orange, but to me, this is super red. In fact, the only way I found out that I kind of had this was making a YouTube video stating that this exact color here was red and everybody in the comments went crazy saying, "No, that's orange." But, yeah, to me, I mean, this looks like a Corvette red, but I'm sure it's supposed to be the Half-Life orange because after all, this is a Valve product. And I've got one more here and oh man, this looks good. So, we've got a walnut finish here. So, if you want that wood grain, I think this is going to look amazing on the front of the Steam Machine, especially if it's something that can match what you've got in your entertainment center already. But, I'd love to know from you in the comments below, which one is your favorite? Do you like this red, well, I mean, orange, or do you like the walnut? Now, I'm sure we're going to see more face plates from different manufacturers. And in fact, we've already seen some accessories. My next video, we're actually going to be taking a look at dbrand's weighted companion cube. Basically, the Steam Machine slides into this thing and it looks absolutely amazing. I was going to use it in this video, but I figured I'd leave it stock for now and uh yeah, I think a lot of people are definitely going to want to get their hands on something like this for the Steam Machine. So, keep an eye out. Video on this will be coming soon. The first thing I want to do is take a look at the IO and up front here, we've got two full-size USB 3.2 Gen 1 ports. We've also got a high-speed microSD card slot up front for easily expanding the storage and our power button. Around back here, we've got a single USB-C port and this is 3.2 Gen 2, two full-size USB 2.0 ports, gigabit Ethernet, our power input, HDMI and DisplayPort out. When it comes to the internals of the new Steam Machine, this is a full custom kit. We've got a custom 6-core 12-thread CPU along with an RDNA 3 based DGPU. And to keep this super small form factor, Valve designed a brand new cooling system. This is a pretty massive heat sink inside of here and this is going to cool that CPU and GPU at the same time. This large fan around back is going to draw air through the unit itself and keep it nice and chilly. And to give you a better look at the cooling system without tearing this thing down in this video, I put a light behind here and you can see that light kind of peeking through the fins of that heat sink. So, yeah, it's pretty massive in there. Before we go over the specs, I do want to turn this thing on for the very first time. So, we just press that power button. You can see we've got a nice little LED bar. It's actually an RGB bar, fully controllable through SteamOS. But, this is the first boot of the unit. Okay, that was pretty cool. And obviously, we need to set this up for the first time. You can use a keyboard or you can use your controller, and it doesn't have to be the Steam controller. You can basically plug in any controller, Switch controller, PlayStation controller. I would recommend an Xbox controller, but it's really up to you in the end. I'll go ahead and get this configured with location and Wi-Fi. Got some updates to do when you first boot this thing up, so just be patient with it. Now we can configure the screen area and sign in the Steam. Once you're finished with the initial setup, it's going to look just like the Steam Deck. I mean, we're running SteamOS here, and I do need to get some stuff installed, but it's a very smooth experience. I will move in a bit closer. I'm going to use my game capture so we can get a better look at everything. There's a few things I want to go over before we get into some real game testing. When it comes to the overall specs here, Valve opted to use a semi-custom AMD Zen 4 base CPU with six cores and 12 threads. They state that this will do up to 30 W TDP and clocks up to 4.8 GHz. 16 GB of DDR5 system RAM, but remember we've got a dedicated GPU here, and that's going to be the semi-custom AMD RDNA 3 base GPU with 8 gigs of GDDR6 VRAM. 28 compute units, and this will clock up to 2.45 GHz with a 110 W TGP. The unit I have here does have a 2 TB m.2 SSD, but they're also going to be offering this with a 512 GB m.2 SSD, but both do support a microSD card. Wi-Fi 6E, Bluetooth 5.3. It's coming in at 2.6 kg or 5.7 lb, so it's a hefty little brick, but I mean, it's very compact. And of course, out of the box, this is running SteamOS. At the time of making this video, I don't have access to FSR 4. This is coming in a later update, so keep that in mind. And with that kind of scaling, we should see better performance and just a cleaner image all around. But, let's jump into the operating system real quick. Jumping right in here with the Steam Machine, looks just like the Steam Deck's interface, and that's because they're both running Steam OS. There's not much difference here. If we move over to our performance, we can set up our overlay. Remember, we've got six cores, 12 threads over there on the left-hand side. I'm going to leave it right there for now. I'm going to connect it to a 120 Hz 1440p monitor, so we can do up to 120 here. You can disable the frame limiter altogether. You can enable VRR as long as your display supports it. HDR, low tearing, half-rate shading. The manual GPU clock is listed here, but it's not correct because from here we can only do up to 1600, and it'll actually default right back. So, hopefully that's fixed down the road or removed completely, depending on what's going on here. And uh there's no TDP control, but Valve states that this custom or semi-custom AMD CPU can do it to a 30 W TDP. So, yeah. I mean, we've got everything here that we need in a nice little gaming system. I'm going to go over to our settings. I'll show you. At the time of this review, they did state that I need to be on the newer betas, so that's exactly what I'm using here. And if we move down, Steam OS Hollow 3.8.20. AMD custom CPU 1772 up to 4.86 six cores, 12 threads, 16 gigs of system memory. And of course, we've got that semi-custom AMD GPU here with 8 gigs of VRAM. So far, it's been a really smooth experience, and uh there's not much more that I can show you here with the operating system that we haven't seen already within uh let's say the Steam Deck itself. But, there are a few custom features specifically added for the Steam Machine. Like, if we go to customization, enable our front light. So, we can set this up, rainbow, breathe, solid. You can totally adjust the brightness, speed, uh brightness during startup, and you can disable it completely. So, we do have that front LED control right here from within SteamOS. But, yeah, I mean, this has been pretty cool. With a system like this, it acts just like a console, so you're going to plug it in, set it up, you can start downloading your games, and play directly from the couch. Or, if you want to set this up in your office, you definitely could. Now, aside from our gaming-centric section over here, we can enable the desktop. We can switch right over there, just like we would with the Steam Deck. And, we've got much more performance here with the CPU and GPU. So, getting work done, editing videos, photo editing, something like [ __ ] would work out really well. But, for this first video, I'm interested in how this thing handles gaming. So, let's go ahead and jump into that right now. And, we're going to start off with Let's do Let's check out Red Dead Redemption 2. And, here it is, at 1440p, high ultra mix, with no FSR. So, we've got a native 1440p, and I was pretty impressed by the performance. In the open world, we're seeing an average of around 76 FPS, like it is. Obviously, once we go inside, there's not a lot of draw distance, not a lot of things that we need to render out, so it will jump up much higher than that. In the low 90s. And, right now, once you get the Steam Machine booted up, everything's going to default to 1080p. Valve did state that the Steam Machine can do 4K 60 with scaling, and they never mentioned anything about frame generation, but not having access to FSR 4 right now, you know, their new scaling technology for this unit here, it does look like a lot of this stuff may need a lot of scaling to do 4K at 60. Next game we have here is Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart, 1440p high with FSR set to balance. And if you take a look at our performance overlay, it's hard-pressed to lock at 60. I figured this would just kind of truck right through it, but again, the GPU that Valve is using here in the Steam Machine is on par with something like the RX 7600M. A little bit of an upgrade over the RX 6600M. And I've done a lot of testing with those on the channel. In my opinion, those cards are great for 1080 Ultra, even newer AAA games, 1440 high with some scaling. So, with updates in the future, getting AAA games up to 4K 60 is going to be pretty impressive. And I think it's all going to come down to their scaling technology, whether it's a custom version of FSR specifically for this GPU. Moving over to Cyberpunk 2077, like I said, all of these games will default to 1080p the way it is right now. You can go to properties from uh SteamOS and take this up to 4K if you wanted to. Just set the maximum resolution. But, I wanted to test this at 1080 Ultra. This is the stock setting, so it did take FSR to auto. Not horrible. We're seeing averages of around 81 FPS, and it's fully playable like this. And by the end of the video, you will see some benchmarks with no FSR. I ran a few games at 1080, 1440, 4K Ultra or very high, depending on what game it is. No FSR, just to kind of get an idea. But, I did want to test Cyberpunk 2077 at 1440 Ultra with FSR set to balance. And it looks like we're seeing an average of around 72 FPS. So, locking most of this stuff down at 60 is going to give you a really nice smooth experience. And if you're using a display or a television that does support variable refresh rate, that's going to be key to not getting any kind of screen tearing up in those resolutions with this because every once in a while with there's lots of particle effects on screen, even though we're seeing a decent frame rate here, does dip under that 60 mark. I always like throwing in at least one fighting game, so I went with Mortal Kombat 1, 1440p high with no FSR. I had a feeling it was going to run this game really well. And as for fighting games on this machine, you're going to have a great experience as long as it's compatible with Steam OS, and most of the games that aren't like Steam Deck verified should pretty much boot up here and work decently. Resident Evil Requiem, this is a very well optimized game. I mean, out of the gate, as soon as this game launched, I was seeing great performance on iGPU. So, going over here, I figured it would run good. 1440 high with FSR set to quality. Seeing an average of around 110 FPS out of this one, and it does look amazing. Obviously, we are using a little bit of FSR. That's how it goes. Again, we're not working with an RTX 5090 here. Elden Ring, 1440 high. I put no FSR, but we don't have any scaling anyway with this one. Locks right down at 60, great experience. And going up to maximum does take us down to around 56, so keep that in mind. But, in the future with updates, just like the Steam Deck. I mean, the Steam Deck itself, performance has come a very long way just with updates to Proton and updates directly from Valve. So, I suspect we're going to see better performance down the road also. Here's The Witcher 3 at 1440p ultra with FSR set to quality. With FSR completely disabled, this is seeing around 58 FPS on average with these settings. It defaulted to low with dynamic resolution scale, but I knew we'd be able to get much more out of it. And of course, I had to test out Forza Horizon 6. 1440p high with no FSR. Valve does recommend running this at 1080 ultra with ray tracing. And with the latest update to the Steam Steam's firmware, ray tracing works great, but I wanted to take that resolution up. And at high 1440, the game looks amazing, especially since we're not scaling at all, and we're seeing an average of around 71 FPS. And in this video, we haven't used any kind of frame generation or anything like that. I'm saving it for my next video. I want to test out 4K, but as I mentioned, I did take a few games and ran the built-in benchmark at very high or ultra, depending on what kind of settings the game has. Native resolutions: 1080, 1440, and 4K. Shadow of the Tomb Raider, again, no scaling, so 1080 very high native resolution, 118 FPS. 1440 very high native resolution, 86 FPS. And 4K very high with no scaling, 44 FPS. Horizon Zero Dawn Remastered, 1080 very high, only 58 FPS with no scaling. 1440 very high, up to 48. And 4K very high, 28 FPS. And finally, Cyberpunk 2077. 1080 ultra no scaling, 74 FPS. 1440p ultra with no FSR, 45. And you can see with 4K ultra no scaling, it really did fall on its face, taking us to an average of 18 FPS. So, they definitely need to work some magic here to get these AAA games up to 4K even with a lot of scaling because if I was to take let's say FSR to performance at 4K, we're still not going to quite hit 60 with Cyberpunk 2077. So far, I've been having a lot of fun with the new Steam machine, but there's a lot more that I need to test. There's a lot more that I kind of want to tune and tweak. There's some ways around that TDP limit. Hopefully it works out and we will be making more videos, so keep an eye on the channel. But the last thing I really want to talk about here is pricing. So they announced this almost 7 months ago and in my video I stated it was going to be anywhere from 1,700 to 1,300 dollars. Since then, I did take it up to 1,350 in another video. And of course, everybody had high hopes that they would keep the price down like they did when they originally launched the Steam Deck. But unfortunately, with RAM prices and storage prices, that's not going to be the case. When it comes to pricing, the 512 GB model is 1,049 USD. Do you want to bundle it with a controller? It's 1,128 US dollars. So that's a bit cheaper than I originally predicted at 1,300 1,350, but we've got another model here, the 2 TB model. Comes in at exactly 1,315 US dollars. With the 2 TB model, you get the two extra face plates like we saw at the beginning of the video. And if you want to bundle it with the Steam controller, it's 1,428 dollars. So obviously, there's going to be people out there that are disappointed about the price not being $399, but with RAM prices right now and storage prices, it's going to be hard to hit a price point like that. But either way, there's still a lot of people out there that are going to want to get their hands on this. And yeah, you can build a machine using used parts for much cheaper that is that will probably outperform this even with Steam OS installed, but you're definitely not going to hit this kind of form factor. And that's one of the main draws here. It's going to fit right there in your entertainment center. I love the way they've set this up. It's a really nice design, solid build, great performance the way it is, but I do think in the future we're going to see much better performance out of this with updates. But out of the box, it's a pretty enjoyable experience. It'd be really cool if you could hit that like button and think about subscribing so you know when I post the next one. I've got many more videos coming up with the Steam Machine, so if there's anything specific you want to see running on this, tested on it, you want to see a teardown, let me know in the comments below. But that's going to wrap it up for this one, and like always, thanks for watching.

Valve's Steam Machine is probably the most anticipated gaming PC of all time. I would argue alongside the Steam Deck, one of the most important. But that doesn't mean that our last two weeks with it have been all good. There are the highlights, like the unbelievably polished experience of Steam OS, not to mention perfect integration with your home media setup. But there's also been the lower lights. Performance in the latest titles being a big one, alongside some hard truths. It costs more than we hoped and Valve confirmed they feel the same way. But if you can stomach the upfront investment, Valve's GameCube is yet another massive step on their now decade plus journey of saving gamers from the closed ecosystems that demand pricey subscriptions. And it is handsdown the best solution that I've ever seen to solving the inconvenience of PC gaming on the couch. It's not the biggest or the baddest, but that onetwo punch is why the Steam Machine is so damn exciting. It combines the strengths of PC gaming with the conveniences of console gaming and all in a nearly silent cube that's about half the size of a real console. But with this kind of hype, can Valve possibly hope to live up to gamers expectations? If we're being realistic, probably not. But I still love the Steam Machine for what it is today. And I'm really excited about what it means for the future of gaming. And I'm also excited, okay, but actually this time to tell you about this companion product from our sponsor Dbrand. Their robot sent over this companion cube case for the Steam Machine. We'll look at it in a bit more detail later, but pre-orders are live now, so go to shortlininus.com to reserve yours. I mean, even if you don't want a steam machine, this thing would look so good on your shelf. Back to the Steam Machine, though. >> I did this for B-roll. We're on a tight schedule, baby. >> Okay, that makes sense. We unboxed and explored the setup of the Steam Machine over on Short Circuit this morning, and we gave our in-depth thoughts on the controller last month. So, we're going to be laser focused on the experience of the Steam Machine itself. Right out of the gate, if you're a Steam Deck or a Big Picture user, you're going to feel right at home. The Steam Machine comes with Steam OS pre-installed, Valve's Linux-based operating system that they've spent over 10 years optimizing for gaming. Why did it take so long? Well, because most games still don't support Linux natively. But thanks to Proton, a translation layer that allows Windows games to run on Linux, we found that almost any game made for Windows runs surprisingly well on Steam OS. No command line, no driver conflicts, just press the button and play your game. It's been one of the Steam Deck's greatest strengths, and that remains true here. And even if somehow you don't like Steam OS, well, great news. Valve takes a very open approach to their hardware. Or should I say your hardware, you know, the way it should be. So, the Steam Machine allows you to install any OS you want, even Windows. It's just that if you did so, you would lose out on some of its best features, like a personal favorite of mine, the ability to suspend your software and resume at the push of a button, just like a console. Seriously, thank you, Valve. Okay, we did find that there were some times that resuming a game would take a little longer than we'd like, but most of the time it was really quick. I'm talking like 5 seconds, which is a huge edge over booting up your PC, loading your launcher, and starting a game. We did notice that sometimes the Steam OS UI would become laggy while a game is suspended. But realistically, we're dealing with pre-release software here. And with how much Valve has refined Steam OS on the deck over the last few years, which is much less powerful hardware, I can say confidently that they're going to get that sorted. The other big one for me is HDMI CEC. It doesn't have the best marketing behind it, and it doesn't have a sexy name. In fact, most people don't even really think about CEC because when it's working properly, you literally aren't supposed to even notice it. but it is hugely important to the living room experience, especially if you have multiple devices. CEC, if you're not familiar, is a protocol that's built into the HDMI standard that allows your various media devices to communicate with and even control each other without running any additional cables. The most common uses for it are allowing your soundbar volume to be controlled by your TV remote or having your Android media box and AV receiver power each other on and off in sync. Now, most PCs straight up do not support it. This is both a hardware and a software problem, and there's no hint of a solution on the horizon. So, achieving any kind of seamless operation involves like janky IR receiver boxes and or complicated home theater automations. Well, Valve hated that. So, they built their own software and custom motherboard for the Steam Machine that, from our experience, just plain works. You press the Steam controller button, it turns on everything, selects the right inputs, and bingo bango bongo, seconds later, you are gaming exactly where you left off. But there's more to a good gaming machine than just living room integration, as Microsoft so painfully learned. >> Go to Internet Explorer. >> Oh, nice. >> And the Steam Machine's raw gaming hotspot leaves a fair bit to be desired, unfortunately. To be clear, it's not terrible. Valve chose a semi-custom six core Zen 4 CPU with 16 gigs of DDR5 memory rated to 5600 mega transfers per second alongside a semi-custom GPU with 8 gigs of dedicated VRAM. So that's more CPU performance and a lot more RAM than the current crop of mainstream gaming consoles. But the current crop of gaming consoles is 6 years old now. And if we look closely at the specs for these chips, they look more Sammy than custom with a strong resemblance to laptop chips from 2023. Now, according to Valve, that's not a problem for most buyers. The Steam Machine should outperform approximately 70% of the gaming PCs that are out there in the wild. And if the Steam Deck is anything to go by, developers will squeeze blood from a stone optimizing for a popular hardware config like this one. But with all of that said, I still feel pretty strongly that these are not the kinds of parts that I would expect in a 4K gaming machine, even with the asterisk of FSR upscaling. But I could be wrong, right? So, let's take a look at the numbers. Right out of the gate, the Linux port of Shadow of the Tomb Raider absolutely crushed Valve's target, hitting over 120 FPS at 4K. Not bad, but that is an 8-year-old game. And sadly, the rest of our suite ended up sitting with average frame rates between 40 to 50 FPS. In fairness to Valve, some of these games were probably running at settings that are a little ambitious for the humble Steam machine, and you could absolutely turn Cyberpunk, for instance, down a little bit and get a more fluid experience. But that wasn't the case for all of them. Doom: The Dark Ages, for instance, was already cranked nearly as low as it could go. This whole situation feels like a completely self-inflicted wound. Like if Valve had never said 4K gaming at 60 fps, and had they instead offered a more nuanced, yeah, 1080p on medium details, maybe high or ultra for older titles, and in some cases, you know what? 4K upscaling looks pretty darn good. I wouldn't even have to be talking about this. But now I have to go spelunking for what the heck Valve was talking about. And it seems like for newer titles, what they meant was low settings with FSR set as low as ultra performance, which means we are upscaling from a mere 720p base resolution all the way to 4K ultra HD. At these settings, all right, sure, all five of our games did hit averages that are comfortably above 60 fps, but at these settings, all five of our games also looked pretty ugly. And there's more bad news. Even with 28 ray tracing cores, RT is pretty much a non-starter on this thing. This is true both for games where it's an option, like Cyberpunk, where we saw an average of 15 FPS at 1080p Ultra, and especially true for games that force its usage, like Indiana Jones or Doom: The Dark Ages, where only one configuration we tested managed to consistently stay above 60fps. And that was the handheld one, right? >> Yep. >> Yikes. To be clear, it's not the end of the world today. But whether you love ray tracing or hate it, there will be more titles in the future that will require hardware support for it, and the Steam Machine just plain doesn't have the horses. Once again, I'd love to be proven wrong here. Valve did contact us hours before recording this to say they are aiming to patch it, but guys, it's a 7600MG GPU. There is no path that I can trace that will lead to acceptable performance on this hardware, especially in light of your unqualified claims of 4K 60fps, which still wouldn't be a huge problem if it wasn't for the big white elephant, the PlayStation 5. On paper, the Steam Machine and the PS5 trade blows, but in real life, I'm sorry, Valve, but it just doesn't quite seem to work out that way. Now, I do have a disclaimer here. The PS5 doesn't support any kind of frame time analysis. So any numbers we give you guys are going to be kind of rough and tumble ad hoc. We explain the methodology, by the way, of both this test and the rest in our accompanying labs article. We'll have that linked down below. But anyway, in God of War Ragnarok, the base PS5, which upscales from 1440p to 4K with chilling around 75 to 78 FPS. Meanwhile, in the same scene, the Steam machine with mostly medium settings and FSR set to quality landed in the 60- 63 range. This isn't the end of the world. We actually found that upscaling was hampering our performance more than we expected, and at 1440p native, we were able to break 70 fps, even with our details turned up. But what it isn't is a win. With that said, choosing the right games and enabling variable refresh rate is going to help to mitigate some choppiness, and you can absolutely have a really solid gaming experience on this box. Also, as these things go out in the wild, I do expect Valve's verified for Steam Machine program to incentivize developers to optimize for this hardware specifically. It's just that you got to keep your expectations in check. It's not magically going to get way faster. Coming back to good news, though, the Steam Machine's download speeds are solid. We saw close to full gigabit speeds over a wire and a little less than half of that via Wi-Fi 6E. That's partially probably thanks to Valve's four dedicated antennas in this box. Two for Wi-Fi, one for Bluetooth, and one for Steam controllers. And we also saw an average power draw of just 175 watts under heavy load with a mere 66 watts for lighter games. That contributes to a cool, quiet experience with the Steam Machine, landing right in line with the PS5 for acoustics and averaging just 68 and 66° across our CPU and GPU, respectively. Good job, Valve. And good job making this such a repairable and serviceable machine. Not only can the Steam Machine be easily opened up, including the ability to upgrade both the RAM and SSD, but Valve has once again partnered with iFixit to make guides and replacement parts available. Absolutely amazing. Maybe consider an LTT precision screwdriver if you ever need to make any upgrades or repairs. It's got all the bits you need and a convenient magnetic parts tray that's included in the lid. ltstore.com. Another highlight is Valve's open approach to peripherals. I mean, can you imagine Nintendo just allowing any old thing to be plugged into their precious gaming machine? Meanwhile, in Valve land, the Steam Machine played nicely with every mouse, keyboard, or headset that we plugged into it, including random Bluetooth accessories. One thing of note is that some of our audio accessories were a little quieter than usual on this new machine, even with the volume maxed. But again, this feels like one of those, don't worry, Valve's going to fix that things. Bringing us finally to something Valve couldn't fix. The detail you've all been waiting for. You can order your Steam machine today, and it will cost $1,50 for the 512 gig storage version, and $1350 for the 2 TB. NO. >> THEN if you want a Steam controller bundled in, that's another $69 on top of that. Woof. I think we better talk about this. Is that reasonable? >> It is reasonable in this current market conditions, but it is >> You sound like you're being held hostage. >> I mean, Valve was held hostage by the parts makers. >> So reasonable, yes. But like, is it too high? >> Yes. And that's a tough thing. I think it's fair to say that both of those things are true. Based on the costs that Valve is seeing and also based on other options that are available in the market, it can be both reasonably priced and still too high. >> I was really hoping that this was going to bring PC gaming to the mainstream living room that I could pitch all my friends and be like, "Oh, get a Steam machine. It's so cool." But this is a premium price, even though I wouldn't say it's a premium product. And in fairness to Valve, they did telegraph this. They were explicit when I came down there for the reveal that it was not going to be subsidized by the 30% cut that they're going to take on games because they have no guarantee that people are actually going to run Steam OS on this or buy any games. And the PS5 is such a giant even bigger elephant in the room than I even said before. the fact that you can still even at the increased price buy a PS5 for $600 US or a PS5 Pro which is a much more powerful machine for 900 >> and then you'd still have money left over for your first year of PS+ >> and both of those PS5s include a controller too. So that's going to cover almost another year. With that said, if you're keeping it for a long time and let's talk TCO, that's a term that not everybody's familiar with outside of like business or the data center. It's total cost of ownership. It often gets said that on the PC side, pricing of games is a huge boon compared to consoles, but you actually opened my eyes to the PlayStation store having a lot of deals. >> There was a week a few weeks ago where there wasn't a sale going on and people freaked out. So, I think the the there's sort of a myth around Steam sales being way better than console, but I think we bounced out. That being said, you can play online games for free >> on a Steam machine and on a PlayStation, you're going to be spending 110 bucks a year. That is brutal. >> A lot of money. That's a game and a half. >> Another big benefit though, I mean, we touched on this, but accessory support. Nintendo's not the only one that keeps things locked down with respect to plugging things into their consoles. I mean, for years, entire brands that make gaming headsets, their only reason for existing at all was that they managed to get the license to produce compatible Xbox gaming headsets. >> Shout out Turtle Beach. >> There were awful audio quality. Like, had no reason for existing other than licensing. even controllers. We're living through a renaissance in the PC space. But to find something good for the PlayStation 5 that doesn't have that has back paddles for less than 200 bucks. So impossible. >> Yeah, we're actually shout out David's upcoming video. We're doing a a modding video on the stock Dual Sense to add paddles to it. >> So excited. >> Going to be pretty pretty freaking cool. I don't even know if I care about bringing this up, but there is one thing the PS5 does that the Steam Machine for now doesn't, and that's VR. >> Yeah, I'm not a big VR guy. I don't think most PlayStation gamers are right now. >> No, they they have like what 12 games. >> I don't think there will ever be another PSVR. >> No. I mean, the other white elephant in the room is the the custom PC you build in a white case. Literally, tomorrow we have a video coming out where we build a PC for the price of the Steam Machine to compare performance. >> I think we're going to see better value. I think we're going to see better upgradability and serviceability. We're going to see better performance. >> We're going to have to talk about it tomorrow. I know I shouldn't be that surprised, but the performance really was a downer for me. >> I think if they hadn't made the 4K 60 promise, it would be a little less painful. >> Or if they had left the door open for Steam Machine Pro, like if I knew there was going to be something based on a 9070 coming that would be the legitimate 4K machine, then I think we'd be having a really different conversation. >> Or eGPU support, maybe some way to upgrade more than just the RAM and SSD. Okay, we've spent a lot of time harping on the price, but what would be the right price? What's the no hesitation, I'd buy one tomorrow price? >> Me or I recommend to people? >> You recommend >> 8 800 bucks, I think, is reasonable. It's slightly worse performance than a a console, but it has so much more openness and features that I think balances out that value. >> Yeah, I mean, we barely even touched on the fact that you can use it as a full-fledged desktop PC. Like, they have done a lot of work, not just on the big picture gaming aspect of Steam OS. I'm actually planning to once we get the real Steam machine back from labs, throw it in my backpack and use it as my daily driver machine for a month. >> Oh, that's pretty fun. >> Yeah. >> So, I'll have to do everything gaming and work on it. And it's actually portable enough that you just could portable. >> Portable. You want to hear something that's really sad? >> I do. >> I asked them specifically, what was the original price point in mind for the Steam Machine? And they're like, I can't give you that, but if you look at the price increase of the Steam Deck, that tells you what we were the targeting for. And that's about a $200 price increase. So, we would have hit our price if it wasn't >> the RAM apocalypse. Do you think it's still going to sell anyway? >> It'll sell a certain amount to the Valve dieards. I think that there's enough people out there that are like, I believe in this. I want to support this. I don't think it's going to cross into the mainstream, even to the level of the Steam Deck. I think the Steam Deck's greatest strength was that it was a really slick console-like experience for a really aggressive price. And this is not an aggressive price. This is a enthusiast price. >> I hate the words you're saying, but I think I accept them for now. If RAM pricing were to normalize, I suspect mostly good guy Valve would make adjustments to the pricing. I can just also understand their perspective that they can't just operate this thing at a loss. And >> do you think scalpers are still going to jump all over this thing? >> Yeah. >> And then I hope they they they get stuck with it forever. >> One thing I would never hope they get stuck with is a sponsor like Dbrand. They've done everything to me from wasting my time to making me stick my arm in a terrible, horrible trap. But you got to give them credit where it's due. They really knocked it out of the park with this one. It could have just been a skin. But no, they put in the extra effort. And manufacturing something this detailed at this scale is more complicated than you guys probably think. All you got to do is use the included embedded Allen key to pop the back panel off and then start assembling your steam machine inside the case. And once you've got the case open, Dbrand didn't miss any details here. They added these rubber strips on the inside to make sure that your machine gets that extra bit of padding. Not to mention is oh so satisfying to slide in. Once the machine's in, you just pop the back plate back on and well, like David said, our steam machine is in B-roll right now. The point is, boom, companion cube. And it's got a few other notable features. It's got removable port covers, a removable front panel with a gap to show off the LED strip and a mechanical button pass through so you can hit the power switch. In terms of intake and exhaust, the bottom is fully open, and on the back side, you've got an unobstructed exhaust vent with full access to all of the IO. And if you're worried about the volume of air that's coming in from the bottom, you can actually reverse the little rubber feet to make it stand just a little bit taller. I need Dbrand to make one of those for me. Hey, I imagine Portal fans are going to absolutely love this one, even the ones who aren't buying a Steam Machine right away. So guys, make sure that you head over to shortlininus.com and be one of the first to reserve yours. Thanks for watching this video. If Valve's ecosystem interests you, or even if it doesn't, check out our review of the Steam Controller. There is a lot to love with that thing.

Steam Machine's Mainboard Is a Masterpiece of Miniaturisation
The Steam Machine is a cute box around the size of a 140mm PC case fan, which means that its motherboard is necessarily tiny. In fact, it's noticeably smaller than a standard ITX size used in DIY small form factor PCs, as you can see in these teardown shots provided by Valve for Digital Foundry.

In conversations with Valve engineers, they mentioned the mainboard is "almost Pico ITX" sized - Pico ITX motherboards measuring 100x72mm (!) - in comparison to a "full-size" Mini ITX motherboard at 170x170mm. The mainboard is a bit larger in terms of raw dimensions, partly due to its mounting points on all four corners protruding further than the circuit board inside, but it's still a feat of engineering.

The image above shows the front of the motherboard on the left, with its AMD CPU (bottom) and GPU (top) clearly visible - albeit under a pile of thermal paste - with four 2GB modules of VRAM surrounding the graphics processor. Flip over to the other side, and you can see the combined CPU/GPU backplate on the top and right, with the single 16GB stick of SODIMM memory (SK Hynix DDR5-5600 if you're interested) in the bottom left. Note that a second RAM slot is available - and the reason it's not populated is interesting.
I'm sure that other publications will do their own teardowns of the device, and it'll be fascinating to see what other nuggets of information are discovered. As we always say with CPU and GPU reviews, we encourage you to read widely to get a balanced idea of performance, as workloads and expectations can vary massively between reviewers.

FUENTE: The Verge
URL: https://www.theverge.com/news/837022/valve-steam-machine-price-release-date
AUTOR: Jay Peters
FECHA: 22 de junio de 2026

TÍTULO ORIGINAL: Valve prices the Steam Machine at $1,049

SUBTÍTULO: You can register your interest starting today, and the first emails letting people buy one will go out on June 29th.

---

DESPUÉS DE MESES DE ESPERA, VALVE ANUNCIA PRECIO Y FECHA

Después de meses de espera, Valve finalmente anunció que la Steam Machine —su nueva PC pensada para la sala de estar— arrancará en 1,049 dólares y saldrá a la venta a partir del 29 de junio.

SISTEMA DE RESERVAS

Ya se puede registrar el interés de compra como parte de un sistema de reservas. Para ofrecer un campo de juego justo, Valve aleatorizará a todos los que estén en la fila el jueves a la 1:00 p.m. ET. Después de eso, cualquiera que registre su interés se añadirá al final de la lista de espera. Los primeros correos que den la oportunidad de comprar saldrán el 29 de junio.

CUATRO CONFIGURACIONES

Valve venderá cuatro configuraciones de la Steam Machine:

- Modelo de 512 GB por 1,049 USD / 1,509 CAD / 1,039 EUR / 879 GBP / 1,609 AUD / 4,389 zlotys
- Modelo de 512 GB con Steam Controller incluido por 1,128 USD / 1,628 CAD / 1,108 EUR / 938 GBP / 1,728 AUD / 4,698 zlotys
- Modelo de 2 TB por 1,349 USD / 1,919 CAD / 1,359 EUR / 1,149 GBP / 2,109 AUD / 5,739 zlotys
- Modelo de 2 TB con Steam Controller incluido por 1,428 USD / 2,038 CAD / 1,428 EUR / 1,208 GBP / 2,228 AUD / 6,048 zlotys

Las configuraciones de 2 TB también incluirán dos faceplates intercambiables —"red fabric" y "solid walnut"— además del negro estándar.

COMPARACIÓN CON CONSOLAS

La Steam Machine es considerablemente más cara que las consolas con las que compite:

- PS5 digital: 599.99 USD
- Xbox Series X: 649.99 USD
- PS5 Pro: 899.99 USD

(Y eso después de que todas subieron de precio.)

Según la reseña de Sean Hollister (colega de The Verge), el rendimiento de la Steam Machine es aproximadamente equivalente al de una PS5, pero casi seis años después del lanzamiento de la PS5.

PROPUESTA DE VALOR

La propuesta de valor de la Steam Machine es que puede ejecutar la biblioteca de juegos de Steam acumulada durante años (o décadas), no solo juegos de PlayStation. También es una PC Linux completa que se puede personalizar a gusto. Valve dice que la vende al costo de sus componentes, sin subsidizar el precio.

CONTEXTO Y RETRASOS

El precio ha sido una de las grandes preguntas desde que se anunció el hardware. Valve permitió a The Verge pasar horas con la Steam Machine, el nuevo Steam Controller y el visor VR Steam Frame a finales de 2025, y salieron impresionados. En ese hands-on, Valve dijo que empezaría a enviar los nuevos gadgets a principios de 2026.

Pero en febrero la compañía anunció que la crisis de memoria y almacenamiento la obligó a revisar precios y planes de envío. En marzo, Valve dijo en un blog post que estaría "shipping all three products this year" (enviando los tres productos este año).

STEAM CONTROLLER Y STEAM FRAME

Valve terminó lanzando el Steam Controller por separado del resto del hardware en mayo, y según The Verge es bastante bueno. El control se agotó rápido cuando salió a la venta y Valve abrió una cola de reservas poco después.

Valve aún no ha compartido precios ni detalles de lanzamiento específicos para el Steam Frame.
